# RSA SecurID Implementation
An insecure and simplified RSA SecurID Implementation for learning purposes. Code only implements dummy algorithms. <br>
Refer to Report.pdf in repository for detailed research. <br>


## Components
A two-factor authentication system for a user to a network resource (supports ONE user only). Uses an interval of 60 seconds to generate authentication codes, with leeway of +- one interval to account for drift to mimic hard tokens.

#### User: token
Mimic hard token generator that outputs an authentication code every 60 second interval. Can specify start_time.

#### Server: authenticate
Server that authenticates a user who is attempting to authenticate. Can specify current_time as program doesn't use system time for ease of demonstration and learning purposes.


## Build
To build the two executables `authenticate` and `token`, run:
```
make
```
To delete, run:
```
make clean
```


## Usage
Note: user_id = serial_id = user_pin = seed = 1 for simplicity. Server assumes token to be initialised at start_time = 0.

To initialise and start token generator (user), run:
```
./token <serial_id> <seed> <start_time>
```
serial_id = id of token attached to user within rsa system <br>
seed = secret symmetric shared key used for encryption <br>
start_time = time when token initialised, default set to 0 <br>

To initialise and start authenticator (server), run:
```
./authenticate <user_id> <user_pin> <authentication_code> <current_time>
```
user_id = id of user within company system <br>
user_pin = pin of user (personally set by user) <br>
authentication_code = latest authentication code generated by token <br>
current_time = time when authentication code is generated (explicitly set so unsychronised tokens can be mimicked). <br>


## Sample Inputs
#### Token synchronised
```
./token 1 1 0
./authenticate 1 1 <authentication_code outputted by ./token> <time at which token is outputted>
```
Successfully authenticated.

#### Token not synchronised (mimic 1 interval time drift in hard token)
```
./token 1 1 60
./authenticate 1 1 <first authentication_code outputted by ./token> 0
```
Token time has drifted to be 60 seconds faster than main server authenticator time. As it is +- ONE interval (60 seconds), the system automatically corrects and allows authentication.

#### Token not synchronised (mimic multi-interval time drift in hard token)
```
./token 1 1 240
./authenticate 1 1 <first authentication_code outputted by ./token> 0
```
Token time has drifted to be 240 seconds faster than main server authenticator time. Code will send a challenge for the next consecutive authentication code to confirm user's identity.
